hello everyone it's elena and i'm back
with another video and today i want to
talk to you guys about how to approach
open book exams
i've went through two exam cycles of
online exams
and many of these exams were open book
exams now these exams are quite
different depending on the class
so sometimes you were given two to three
hours to complete the exams and other
times up to 50 hours
but usually the expectation was that we
would spend two to three hours writing
the exam
itself now the reason why you sometimes
get a huge time span is because some
courses have students from different
time zones
and so they will have to write the exam
at a different time
and sometimes professors also just don't
want you to stress about it
but generally it is nonetheless really
good to stick to the recommended time
for writing the exam
because otherwise you just end up
staring at it for way too long
so here are my tips for how to approach
open book exams from preparing for them
after writing them
and this video is brought to you by
lexisnexis but more on that later on
first up here's what i do in the weeks
before the exam i think it is important
to nonetheless write your revision notes
like you normally do because it's not
realistic that you're going to search
through all your textbooks for the
information that you need during the
exam
so instead i still write my revision
notes in good notes like i do for exams
where i don't have access to the notes
during the exam
and basically what i like to do is i
like to make them look a little bit nice
so that i'm more motivated to look at
them
if you guys are interested in how i make
these notes i'm going to link the video
on it in the info box below
but whatever revision note taking method
works for you just make sure that you
have your revision notes ready
to go i base my revision notes on my
notes from class and my notes from
readings such as
cases and academic articles and i
usually have to use legal databases such
as the lexis library in order to find
these readings that i have to do for my
classes
and these legal databases can be kind of
hard to navigate especially in the
beginning
but they are super super useful once you
know how to use them and later on in the
video i'm going to show you guys a trick
on how to learn how to use the lexis
library more efficiently
and if you guys want to learn it right
now you can just skip to the timestamp
on the screen
and one thing that i find really
important if you are doing digital
revision notes is that you organize them
in folders
so that you are able to refer to these
folders and
you don't have to look through you know
hundreds and hundreds of pages of notes
to find what you are looking for but
instead
they are very clearly structured same
goes for if you're using paper just make
sure that you for example use post-its
or dividers
so that you can find the information
very quickly and lastly if you are doing
digital notes
make sure that you're using a program
where you can search so on goodnotes you
can search even your handwriting which
is super useful
and it shows you in context where you
wrote that word
so that you can then see whether that's
exactly what you need
i think it's a really useful tool and it
can just save you a ton of time because
you don't need to go for each page
individually but rather you can just use
the search tool to get you exactly where
you need to be
now what should you do with your
revision notes what i like to do is i
just like to grab them whenever i have
time
and sit down and just look over them i
think it's really important that you
just spend a lot of time
looking at them and you know reading
through them make sure that you actually
understand what you're reading
now i love doing digital revision notes
because it allows me to just grab them
at any time
for example later in the evening i just
like to sit down on my bed and just go
over them again
and i try to quiz myself a little bit on
them in my head but i'm not too strict
on it with myself because i just mainly
aim for remembering the framework
but not necessarily the legal paragraphs
and stuff and next then i try to explain
the topic to someone else
i think that's usually where you can see
whether you've actually understood it
now normally i wouldn't refer to my
notes but for open book exams i think
it's perfectly fine if you grab your
notes and then explain it to someone
now my family is pretty tired of me
explaining legal topics to them
so at this point my stuffed animals are
my loyal audience
but whatever you know whoever will
listen to you
just make sure that you explain it to
someone because it really helps if you
have to present a topic in a clear way
because it shows whether you actually
know what's important about it and when
you're using your notes while presenting
the topic you also start to remember
where you can find which information
which will be really useful during the
open book exam because you need to know
where you can find what
yeah if you ever have a legal question
just call my stuffed animals
they have had a ton of law lectures from
me as the exam's getting closer here's
what i would do in the days before the
exam
now obviously you still need to be
revising but aside from that you need to
make sure that you have everything
prepared for the exam itself
so i like to write down when the exam's
gonna be how much time i should spend on
it when i'm gonna write it
where can i download the paper where can
i upload my answers
and what's the email or telephone number
of the professor in case there's a
technological issue and i can't upload
my stuff
and then this is what it looks like when
i complete that template so i just made
up an international law exam in my head
and just completed this little template
here now obviously
there are no links because i just made
that up but if you guys want to download
this template there's a link in the info
box below for you guys
where you can download it and then use
it for yourself and
one thing that i find really useful to
write down as well is things to prepare
so obviously you need to have your
revision notes ready whether you have to
print it out or digitally
maybe you need a statute book maybe some
snacks a water bottle
stuff like that you know just so that
you can make sure that everything will
be ready on your desk and you don't need
to worry
on the day whether you have missed
anything at this point it's also a good
question to ask yourself
whether you are gonna need a guide for
referencing
because with open book exams you
sometimes need to do formal citations
which you normally wouldn't have to do
if the exam is an open book now at
cambridge we usually use this type of
citation but it really depends on the
class
now i love this printed out guide
because you can use your little post-its
and for me that's really really helpful
but it's also available for free online
i'm gonna link both this printed version
and the free online version for you guys
in case you're interested in this
and yeah then it's time to get to exam
day
the one thing that really helps me a lot
is
changing my outfit when i write an exam
in sweatpants i feel like i'm on my bed
and i'm just ready to fall asleep
so for me it really helps me to just
change into normal day clothes
because then my brain feels more like it
actually has to do some work
and then it's of course important to
actually stick to the time that you set
for yourself for writing this exam and
make sure that you've planned in some
buffer time because it may take you a
little bit longer
and if you are struggling to stay away
from your phone while writing exams at
home
it can help to use the forest app where
you can let a little tree grow and if
you leave the app
before the tree has grown then the tree
is going to die and trust me that's
quite traumatic so
you are going to stay away from social
media and yeah then it's time to
actually write that exam
but what if there's something in your
revision notes that you haven't written
down
but that you need to know then it can
help to quickly look up the information
on a legal database such as the lexus
library if you're a law student in the
uk you have free access to the lexis
library
and the lexis library is a massive
database for legal cases
journal articles etc and if you're like
me
in the beginning i was very confused
about how to use legal databases such as
the lexus library
but the cool thing is that lexisnexis
actually offers you free training
for the lexus library and when you know
how to use it
then it can be a super useful tool for
legal research and you will be able to
quickly look something up
and of course this can also come in
handy when making your revision notes
because you can add some extra
information to your notes
lexisnexis offers you free training for
the lexus library
in the form of certifications and you
can of course also use these
certifications on your cv or
linkedin because many law firms in the
uk actually use the lexis library
so it will be really useful to
demonstrate that you already know how to
use it well
and the certifications are completely
free you can just take the test on their
website
and don't worry if you don't pass it the
first time you can retake it as many
times as you want to
and they also offer you free training to
prepare you for the test
so they will explain to you how you
actually have to use the lexus library
and then you can take the test all the
information is available on the student
hub
and i'm going to link the information
about the certifications and the
training for you guys in the info box
below
and yeah i can only recommend this to
you because it will make your life so
much easier in law school
because you will know how to use this
database and it really helps a ton
and when you know how to use it it is
super super useful
and yeah then you are ready to take your
open book exam if you guys have any open
book exams coming up
best of luck and yeah thank you so much
for watching this video and thank you so
much to lexisnexis for sponsoring it
have a nice day bye
[Music]
you